Kelpie Examples
===============

Kelpie provides a flexible Key/Blob store using FAODEL components. Users 
create a resource **pool** out of one or more ranks in the system and 
then exchange Lunasa **Data Objects** with the store. Objects are labeled
with a simple Key, which is composed of either one or two strings.

This directory provides a few basic examples that show how to interact
with Kelpie. For simplicity, the majority of these examples use a **no-net**
version of Kelpie, which is only capable of doing operations within the
local rank. The dht example uses MPI to set up a DHT across many nodes
that is used to route data from a set of producers to a set of consumers.

If you're learning about Kelpie, you should read through the examples 
in the following order.

start-finish
------------
This minimal program just uses bootstrap to start kelpie and then
stop it. This is mostly to just verify kelpie built and can start stop.

using-whookie
-------------
This example walks a user through Kelpie's whookie interface. After starting
up, it prompts the user to look at different parts of whookie in a browser
as it inserts new objects.

local-pool-basics
-----------------
This tutorial walks a developer through the process of connecting to a pool
and interacting with it. It uses a local pool, which is just an interface 
to the rank's local memory. 

storing-in-iom
--------------
Often we need a way to make some objects persistent. This tutorial goes 
through the process of writing objects to a pool that is attached to
persistent storage. This program runs as either a writer (`-w` argument)
or a reader (`-r` argument). Objects written by the writer can be read
by a separate run of the reader.

dim-sum
-------
This example spins off multiple producers and consumer threads in a single
rank to demonstrate how a pool can be used to pass data objects between
entities. The consumer sums up information generated by each producer.

prod-con
--------
The prod-con is a networked example that uses a DHT pool to move data
objects between producer and consumer ranks. 